## Preamble

    BTIP: 0001
    Title: Create a Consolidated Whitepaper Document with Improved Clarity, Accuracy, and References
    Author: ZNX (team@restratagem.com)
    Type: Standard Track
    Status: Deferred
    Created: 2024-01-21

## Abstract
The goal of this BTIP is to review the existing whitepapers created by Masayoshi Kobayashi, merge them into a single comprehensive document, add diagrams, and include other forms of visual aid to enhance clarity, as well as bibliographic citations.

## Motivation
The existing papers, though impressive in content, lack the clarity and bibliographic citations necessary to convey Bitnet's raison d'être to new users while inspiring confidence in the same audience.

## Specification
Before its final approval and use as the official document on the Bitnet Money website, the new whitepaper must be discussed and supported by the community. In essence, the primary objectives of rewriting the paper are: 1) to improve conceptual and implementation clarity by adjusting some of the original wording and adding visual aids such as diagrams and charts to facilitate understanding; 2) to enhance the existing writing by adding important information currently missing from the paper; 3) to improve and enhance Bitnet's mission and values, making it clearer to users what Bitnet stands for in the short, medium, and long term. A great example of a simple yet efficient whitepaper is that of the Kaspa Network, which we could use as a template for our new whitepaper.

## Rationale
An improved and professionally written whitepaper will enhance clarity, inspire more confidence, and help Bitnet achieve broader adoption and usage.

## Backwards Compatibility
There are no backwards compatibility issues arising from this proposal.

## Test Cases
This BTIP does not touch on Bitnet's code or consensus mechanism, thus eliminating the need for any test cases.

## Implementations
A template of what the new whitepaper could look like will be proposed after further community discussion.

## References
2023, Bitnet: A Peer-to-Peer Programmable Money Network, by Masayoshi Kobayashi (https://bitnet.money/d/bitnet.pdf)  
2024, Theoretical Framework for Offline Transactions in Bitnet: Smart Checks, Master Pool, and Payment Networks, by Masayoshi Kobayashi (https://bitnet.money/d/bitnet-offline.pdf)  
2018, PHANTOM GHOSTDAG: A Scalable Generalization of Nakamoto Consensus, by Yonatan Sompolinsky, Shai Wyborski, and Aviv Zohar (https://eprint.iacr.org/2018/104.pdf)  
